In this video I'll demonstrate how to verify the network configuration of ESX I hosts in a virtual machines
as well.
And all of this content is going to be represented on your sphere foundations exam.
So let's start with our ESX I host.
I'm going to go to hosts and questers.
Pick out a host and let's go to configure and take a look at our ESX host and we'll go under the networking
screen.
And we're going to look at all of these different areas on our networking.
So first off we have our virtual switches.
You can click on a virtual switch and you can use any of the menu options here to make changes.
Right.
So the first menu option is the ADD networking option or if I want to create a new port group I can
do that here right if I want to create a new VM kernel port.
I can do that here.
I if I want to create an entirely new virtual switch I'll choose this option create a new port group
and then I'll choose to create it on a new standard switch so I can create either port groups VM kernel
ports or an entirely new virtual switch using that option.
Now if you hover over any of these buttons it'll tell you what they do.
This one will refresh the hosts network system if I've made changes.
And here I can manage the physical adapters for this particular virtual switch.
So if I had additional physical adapters or VM Annex I could add those here to this virtual switch right.
Each physical adapter of your ESX I host can only be assigned to one virtual switch.
So for this host I have one physical adapter that physical adapter is assigned to this particular virtual
switch.
And if we look at some of the characteristics of this physical adapter we can see that it is actually
a virtual device right.
Were using it in this lab environment.
ESX I host are actually virtual machines so you can see at this moment CGP and LDP have not been enabled.
If they were we could see information about the physical switches that this host is connected to here.
But like I said this this ESX I hope this is actually a virtual machine and its not really connected
to a physical switch.
This next button allows us to move our VM kernel ports around.
So if I have a VM kernel port thats on one virtual switch and I want to move it to another virtual switch
I can do that using this menu option.
And if I want to edit my virtual switch itself lets with the pencil icon for so I can edit things like
the maximum transmission unit I can edit things like security settings right.
I can go ahead and reject MAC address changes and forged transmits if I don't need those things.
I can configure traffic shaping or nic teaming and fail over and a lot of these topics are covered in
the other videos that are part of this course.
So if you're not familiar with the different load balancing mechanisms or the different way that network
failure detection is performed check out the other videos in this course.
But I want to move on now I want to take a look at the VM kernel ports.
All right so here we have a VM kernel port called V case 0.
And I'm going to go ahead and add it does VM kernel port.
And here we can see all of the services that are enabled on this VM kernel port it so I could enable
V.M. Colonel Portes specifically for virtual sceneries for replication or fault tolerance or management
or emotion.
If we look at the nix settings we can see the empty you for the VM kernel port.
We can see the IP address and at the moment we're actually obtaining the IP version 4 settings automatically.
I could statically configure it as well if I wanted to.
And I'll go ahead and hit OK here.
Now you want to be careful when you're working with the management VM kernel port because if you make
a mistake here you're going to lose management access to the host.
And so therefore you won't be able to manage it with the center or the vees fair web client anymore.
Here are my physical adapters for this host.
We've already looked at these a little bit and then I can see the TCAP IP configuration for this host.
So there are multiple network stacks available in your ESX I hosts and vice versa stuff five the default
stack is used for everything by default.
All right so what we mean by different network stacks is we can assign different DNS servers we can
assign different default gateways we can have different routing tables for different types of traffic.
So if I wanted to send all of my Wii motion traffic over a different network I could do that I could
create a different TCAP IP stack configuration and then associate it with the motion so that all my
view motion traffic goes over one specific network
and that's really the host specific configuration here for my networking settings.
You can see here we can configure routing IP version 4.
So if you wanted to do something like change the DNS server that might ESX I host points to we can go
here we can edit this TZP IP stack.
We can modify the DNS server we can modify the routing settings and change the default gateway.
And we can modify our advanced configurations here as well.
And my second host is configured pretty much identically very similar configuration.
We have one VM kernel port on that host as well.
And one virtual switch.
So that's the basics of the ESX host configuration.
So if you want to verify the network configuration of a host this is how you do it.
Now there's one final setting that I do want to take a little bit of time to delve into.
Maximum transmission unit.
The main thing that you want to be aware of here is we want to make sure that we're configuring an empty
view that is consistent.
So for example if I enable jumbo frames on this virtual switch and this virtual switch has a physical
adapter or it has a VM Nic and that VM Nic is connected to a physical switch.
Right here is my physical adapter that physical switch also needs to have that empty you of 9000.
That's really important because if it doesn't we're going to run into connectivity problems there.
When you have a mismatch in the MT you settings it can result in a couple of different scenarios.
Right.
Number one it can break network connectivity entirely or number two it can result in what we call fragmentation
and re-assembly.